Today we will go deeper into one
of the generic strategies that
is cost or low cost leadership.
Remember that in Michael Porter's
generic strategy matrix it
is determined that there were
mainly three.
You can choose to be cost leadership,
you can choose differentiation
or you can choose to focus
on a niche or a specific
segment.
Let's see what cost leadership is.
It is a fact that many people are confused.
Being a cost leader is not being a price
leader.
Being a cost leader means being
within your sector or industry
that has the possibility
to produce or provide services
at a lower cost.
It is a cost leader.
So from there, what you can
do, if you sell at the same
price as others, what you
do is get higher profits.
Or you can choose to sell cheaper.
In a market where price
sensitivity jumps, if you sell
cheaper, you will barrier the market
and you will gain market share.
You will steal customers from the competition.
In any case, what allows you to
be a cost leader is to be in
a position of absolute strength.
You have a lot of weapons to compete with.
You can make very aggressive promotions.
You can sell at the same price as
your competitors.
But what you do is get, as you get
higher margins, you decide to make
a much larger reinvestment in marketing,
invest a lot more in marketing
than your competitors.
And so you are also growing
and you are earning share, but
without having to lower prices.
Well, when it makes sense, another
key question is, when it makes
sense to opt for a cost-leading
strategy is because it's
not always and in all sectors
equal cash.
In principle, the more comfortable
a sector is, the more it is a concept
you should understand because we
have studied it previously.
The more equal or indifferent
the proposals of the
different competitors,
the more price competition
is usually in this sector.
Let us take an example of
a raw material sector, for
example, where all proposals
are equal.
The customer chooses only on the
basis of price.
In this environment, it
makes sense to be cost-
leader.
The cost leader in a highly commodified
sector would be the market leader
without a doubt.
Well, the question is how, another
key question, is how it is carried
out, how it is executed, what
decisions you need to make
to be a cost leader.
Because this is not easy, it is not
just a matter of deciding on cost leadership.
To be a cost leader you need
to have a real commitment to
reduce costs throughout
the value chain and systematically.
Let's look at examples of companies
and how they did it.
This is not a complete list,
but it will illustrate the
different options.
Walmart is often placed as the case
of cost leader due to the economics
of scale.
In a sector like food distribution
and a company like Walmart that
is the largest retailer in the
United States, that huge economy
of scale its size allows it
to be the leader in cost for
various reasons, but among
others for the ability to
negotiate it has with suppliers,
for example.
Another option you have if you want
to be a cost leader is to reduce the
supply of services and therefore reduce
the investment in the provision
of those services.
Low cost airlines are a clear
example of this.
Reduce many of the services
offered by a premium
airline or many of the services
offered by all airlines.
What happens is that it has
been shown that there is a large portion
of customers, a very large segment,
prefer not to receive those services
in exchange for a significant
price savings.
One of the most obvious is the case of Ikea.
IKEA reduces service because
you have to mount the furniture
in your home.
This was previously impossible
at any other furniture seller.
And also imagine the cost savings
that this generates for IKEA
in terms of logistics because
you can move disassembled furniture,
save personnel, etc.
Well, it's a clear example of how
you reduce services but because
you're playing a lead in cost and
your customer is willing to do
so.
McDonald's is another case, in this
case by standardizing its entire
proposal.
In the tens of thousands
of McDonald's there are no
cookers.
You don't have to hire someone
who has the experience of
cooking because the processes are
so standardized, so key-in-hand
that you can file anyone
without any experience.
And the first day is already making
that not cooking hamburgers.
A company with a clear
positioning of cost leadership,
although there would be a deeper
analysis, is Mercadona.
A few years ago, 15 years ago,
he started advertising his
slogan of always low prices.
So Mercadona has made many decisions
to this and we will
see several.
For example, what you have decided
is to integrate backwards
or establish very close relationships
with your suppliers,
making them a figure that is called
interprovidor, which we will analyze
in detail, which ultimately
allows you to impact the final
customer a cost savings.
He decided, for example, that it was
another clearly focused decision to
be a cost leader, he decided
to reduce the range of branded products.
For a category, instead of offering
10 brands, offer 3.
It is in theory reducing the value
delivered to customers.
What happens is that, obviously,
if you focus on fewer brands,
reduce the range, you can get
better prices, etc.
Another decision he made to
reduce costs was to eliminate
promotions, to have more
stable prices.
And that allowed him to reduce, for
example, the poster, the brochures,
etc.
Well, they are all decisions that
are oriented to be cost leader.
As I said, this is
a commitment you have to
make.
Companies, cost leaders or companies
that compete with that positioning?
For example, in Spain, the shops
of Chinese have proliferated, which
could once be shops of
all hundred, I don't know.
And how do they get it?
What is the key?
Well, because probably the
labor costs of employees
are lower.
And that's why they can be allowed,
among other causes, to be leaders
in cost and price too.
There are other reasons.
For example, this is a case we are
probably already studying.
The case of Jovan Talent, who
told us Felix, how they were the
low cost sector of temporary
labor companies.
Well, in this case it is the result
of an innovation in the business
model, which instead of providing
the service through people,
such as CTTs, which have offices,
people, etc., in the case of
Jovan Talent connect them
to the supply and demand
of work through an application.
Therefore, they have innovated in the
business model and this has allowed
them to offer, having very very
very very very very much lower costs
than their direct competitors, which
are CTTs.
So, what are the challenges
that a low-cost
company faces?
I would say they are three mainly.
One is that this type of competitive
advantage, in principle, many
of them are easier to copy.
They are easier to copy than to differentiate.
So if you can imitate the competitive
advantage, well, it stops
being, right?
As we saw.
In addition, and it is something
that always happens, and it is that in
this type of markets, and especially
if you compete in cost lead, your customers
are very unfaithful, because you
have in mind that they have chosen
you for being the cheapest.
You have not been chosen in the same way
as if you compete in differentiation for
something that the customer likes, no.
They chose you for being the cheapest.
So, as there's another one that's
a little cheaper than you,
it's that there's no brand loyalty,
right?
And finally, there is a
difficulty that some company has
encountered with it, and is that
if at some point you want to pivot
and start selling products
or services of greater value,
your positioning cheap, low
quality, etc., often prevents
you from growing, right?
This prevents them from choosing
a differentiation strategy.
These are mainly the challenges.